Iteration Station

01/28/2022

Software Capstone

Team Minimum Value Product

A minimum viable product is described as a version of a product that allows team members to maximize learning about customers with the least effort. An MVP should be a product that *could* stand alone, if need be, but can or will be improved upon in the future. The importance of an MVP for a team is acknowledging the short-term goal that will bring in some value. Establishing an MVP allows developers to focus on tools and systems that users and customers need instead of what they may want but is unnecessary to the completion of the project. Also, if an MVP has value with just the core principles of the project, this is an easy way to validate concepts and distinguish between the practicality of projects and help managers or development teams to decide on which ideas to pursue. With regards to Aidan Interactive Rendering, I believe that an MVP for this project would be a version that produces interactive rendering through Unreal Engine (excluding Revit export functionality).

In a minimum viable product version of AIR (Aidan Interactive Rendering), the focus would be on achieving cloud computational power, and Unreal Engine’s graphical production. I describe this as an MVP because it may operate from specific models that developers hard code in, but doesn’t necessarily possess extra functionality, such as communicating with Revit for architectural designs or doing computations in the cloud. This does achieve status as a product, however, because independently it can provide interactive renderings, however, it doesn’t contain extra enhancements that cloud computing will provide or a larger pool of designs that Revit can achieve.

The next step for this MVP would be utilizing cloud computational power to enhance the project.  This will enable AIR to be hosted and render projects in the cloud.  Functionality and efficiency will both be improved because adding or changing data files will not require a reload of the entire project or engine.  Utilizing the cloud is the optimal choice because the alternative, rendering in Unreal, could create issues such as slow run-time because of file size, or even having to reinstall the engine because of changes to data files.  Unreal possesses many systems that enable connectivity to resources in the cloud, such as pixel stream, that allow developers to off-load necessary rendering or computation.

This MVP can be achieved by utilizing Unreal Engine’s unique systems, animations, shading, and lighting systems to create a completely interactive environment. The shader systems in Unreal are unique in the way they are compiled. The shaders are compiled with a unique case for all materials and meshes, preparing for all possible outcomes, which offers greater interactivity for users as lighting and shading change inside of the Aidan Interactive Rendering designs. Also, shaders are applied only when they become available, which will allow greater detail in graphics without heavy requirements on system specifications.

The MVP can be delivered by the end of the 4th sprint. Utilizing the capabilities of Unreal Engine, interactive environments will be able to be rendered and explored by the user. This also allows 8 weeks to develop functionally for computing rendering processes in the cloud, as well as including Revit architectural designs in building new environments.  

Overall, MVPs play an integral role in planning large-scale projects and allow developers to remove unnecessary or trivial features to validate the core foundations of a project. MVPs are generally built very quickly, this way validation occurs with little effort, and not much is lost if a project is retired. My personal belief is that a good MVP candidate for AIR would be a program in Unreal that creates interactive environments, then can later be built upon with Revit and cloud computing functionality.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Maelscrum

01/24/2023

Software Capstone

Team Minimum Value Product

The MVP for AIR (Aiden Interactive Rendering), set to be delivered by the end of our 4th sprint, is to generally focus on constructing a runtime Revit exporter and Unreal importer for the FBX 3D file format. By constructing this importer and exporter pair, we seek to make Revit environments able to be represented in Unreal. With a new file format being chosen for AIR, much of the previous work completed on this software will not be able to be reused. This MVP seeks to create a very simple scene to simplify the initial importation process. There is a myriad of additional features that can be added to AIR after this goal has been met, such as proper object collision, a lighting solution, proper texturing of all surfaces, the use of cloud computing to increase the potential fidelity, and more. These additions will improve the product but will slow down the development of our core goal: to provide a real-time walkthrough capability to Revit models. While it would be great to continue the work done by the previous team, the need for a modern and popular 3D file format is simply too great for the future of this project.
              
The FBX file format has been chosen because Unreal supports FBX importation natively and Revit supports FBX exportation natively. During our research, multiple run-time FBX importers for Unreal were discovered which could be used for our purposes. While these tools exist, it is not clear at this time whether they can be used for this software. Nevertheless, even non-runtime support for FBX should streamline our implementation of an FBX importer and exporter. While the Collada file format was considered, the native support for FBX in Unreal and Revit is too useful to ignore.
              
By allowing customers to create an interactively rendered scene imported from Revit to Unreal, we will have access to the maximum amount of feedback in the least amount of effort. With any less work, customers would not be able to use their projects in AIR in real time and feedback would be severely limited. We will of course receive feedback asking for textures and lighting, but the simple representation of Revit models in a real-time 3D space allows for very simple Unreal solutions to be applied to AIR. This MVP sees the implementation of adding a physical human analog to walk through the imported model as being non-critical for gaining maximum feedback. A free-floating controllable camera will be sufficient for our initial purposes. Once this MVP has been achieved, making the environment even roughly traversable will be quite easy.
              
In addition to the previous MVP points, we will be updating the Unreal game engine. The last team was using Unreal Engine 4. Unreal Engine 4 projects are completely forward-compatible with importation into Unreal Engine 5. The technical difference between these two engines is also quite staggering, boasting massive increases in maximum polygon counts and the introduction of several new technologies. One such technology is the Lumen global illumination engine which we could use for our lighting solution. Another technology introduced in Unreal Engine 5 is Nanite, which allows for even incredibly high polycount geometry to be rendered at a minimal performance cost. Nanite also allows for the importation of photogrammetry scans, opening the door to realistic quality objects in AIR environments.
By producing the very core of the project for this MVP, we ensure that all feedback we receive will pertain to how we can make the core of this project better. Because this team does not include anyone familiar with Revit and using Revit to create architectural solutions, many possible issues with our design plan can only be found through a usable release and consumer feedback. After achieving this MVP, we can start moving towards remedying user issues simultaneously while we improve fidelity and usability. To achieve this goal, we plan on using cloud computing solutions for rendering and processing. This way, we can generate highly detailed environments without having to worry about our consumer’s hardware limitations. This would also allow customers to present and examine designs from most machines with an internet connection. As we move forward, this MVP may evolve based on new information or unique perspectives.

